Hey, what's up and welcome to this video
where I'm going to teach you how to get
verified on Instagram and or Facebook in
2023. Now, a few months ago I put out a
video on this channel about how to get
verified and actually that was now
what's considered the old way to get
verified. In the past, in order to get
verified on Instagram, you had to be
deemed what Instagram would consider a
noteworthy public figure. Their exact
criteria of what meets that definition
wasn't ever exactly clear and it was
pretty vague. In fact, they would
usually require three to five
professional big major publication news
articles to be written about you or at
least mention your name in order to get
verification. I knew plenty of people
myself who I would deem noteworthy
newsworthy public figures who had
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
followers here on YouTube or over on
Twitter and TikTok and yet they weren't
verified on Instagram. And then I knew
other people who had a couple thousand
followers, maybe their name appeared in
one article or no articles and yet they
were verified. It was very confusing,
hard to understand, and hard to obtain.
And I think that's part of the reason
why so many people sought after this
verification. I myself was verified in
2020, but it was primarily because I was
a college football player and my name
appeared in some articles. So, when I
applied, I think they thought I was some
fancy football star and they verified
me. But I was definitely not and it
really I think helped me with my
Instagram growth. A lot of people
assumed that I was verified on Instagram
because I was an Instagram expert,
because I know how to grow on Instagram,
because I've built a massive following
and community on Instagram. So, then
Instagram gave me the blue check, but
that's not true. I actually believe that
a big part of the reason why I was able
to grow so fast on Instagram was because
of the clout and the social currency
that comes with that blue verification
badge. And I think that's why it's so
sought after and I think that's why for
so many years so many people have tried
to get verified. There have been so many
scams related to verification, so many
questions about how to get verified on
Instagram. And it's because it has this
unwritten social clout, this unwritten
social status that says, "Hey, Instagram
thought I was good enough." essentially.
And so, subconsciously in viewers and
potential followers, it makes you that
much more credible and makes them that
much more likely to follow you and
engage with your content. That was the
verification of the past though. And the
new verification is going to be
available to pretty much everyone. It's
going to be way more widely accessible.
And so, I think that this clout
component, this this social aspect,
social currency aspect, might actually
decrease over time. We're going to get
to that later. I don't want to get ahead
of myself. The purpose of this video is
to teach you how to get verified in
2023. How can you actually do that?
Well, like I said a moment ago,
Instagram has made it so much easier
because of their new subscription
service called Meta Verified. In
essence, Meta Verified is going to be a
monthly fee that you pay in order to
unlock four exclusive features. Those
four exclusive features include, first
and foremost, the blue verification
badge. That's probably the most obvious
one. You get the little blue check mark
next to your name. That's the first
thing they offer. The second thing that
Instagram is offering with this
verification subscription is access to
customer service. Now, when they first
announced this, it wasn't clear if there
was going to be like a hotline that you
were going to be able to call, a special
number you were going to be able to
reach out to, maybe an email address, a
separate communications channel, but
it's actually since been confirmed that
there is going to be a separate
messaging area within the Instagram app
where you are going to be able to
contact and communicate back and forth
with a real human being who works for
Meta and is going to be able to answer
your questions. Now, not to jump too far
ahead of ourselves, but from my
conversations with some people who have
already gone through this process and
begun talking to this Meta staff member
or staff members plural, their answers
are relatively vague. They're not always
super helpful and they don't always
necessarily know the answer to every
question that's being asked, but even
just the opportunity to contact support
and ask questions of Meta staff is
something we've never been able to
openly and regularly do before. And so,
this is one of the new features offered
with Meta verification. The third
feature that they're offering with Meta
Verified is increased account security
and protection against hackers. I think
that's awesome and something that we all
want. The fourth and final thing that
Instagram is offering with Meta
Verified, and I should say that actually
Instagram and Facebook, because Meta
Verified does apply to both IG and
Facebook, is increased protection
against impersonator accounts.
Basically, Instagram will be
proactively, this is what they say,
looking out for accounts that are going
to be impersonating you as a verified
user and shutting down those accounts.
Now, originally there was actually a
fifth benefit or feature of Meta
Verified and that's that you were
promised to get an increase in reach.
You're going to get some new features,
you're going to get early access to
different things, priority in the feed,
and you were going to be able to reach
more people, get more views, and more
potential followers if you paid for
verification. This was definitely the
most controversial of the early promises
behind Meta Verified because some people
absolutely hated the idea that Instagram
was creating a pay-for-play system. They
despised the fact that now you're going
to have to pay if you wanted to reach
more people and grow on Instagram. And
they felt like if you weren't paying,
you were going to be getting a real
discredit or Instagram was going to be
doing you a real disservice by showing
your post to less people just because
you weren't paying them a monthly fee.
On the other hand, there were some
people who were really excited and this
was the biggest selling point for them.
They were saying, "Yes, if I only have
to pay X number of dollars per month in
order to reach more people and grow my
following, sign me up. Where's the
dotted line? I'm ready to join this
program." And so, Instagram just kind of
felt that it was too controversial,
there were too many bugs and glitches,
and just too many people pushing back,
too much of a divide with this feature.
So, they decided to take that back and
cancel what they were originally said
and they will no longer be offering an
increase in reach, views, or engagement
just because you have the verification
badge. With that being said though, we
have found through our studies of our
users and our members of our club who
have this verification badge that there
is a slight increase in terms of views
and engagement. I don't think that this
is Instagram pushing you out to more
people because you're paying them. Of
course, that's possible, but in my
opinion that's not what's going on.
What's actually going on goes back to
what I was talking about earlier about
the social clout, the social currency,
the weight or the value of that blue
check mark. And I think that when people
are seeing content posted by a verified
user or people are coming across the
profile of a verified person, they're
more likely to engage just because
subconsciously this person matters, this
person's important, this person is news
and noteworthy and verifiable. And so,
they're more likely to network, engage,
and follow this person. With that being
said, Meta Verified is currently only
available in three countries at the time
of recording this, but I will say I will
continue to update that number down in
the description. So, no matter when
you're watching this, check down the
subscription and I'll have an updated
list of what countries and regions Meta
Verified is available because they are
slowly testing and rolling it out
worldwide. As I sit here right now, it's
only available in Australia, New
Zealand, and they've begun rolling it
out in the United States. So, only those
three countries as of now. But of
course, I'll update the description as
they release this feature in more
countries. Regardless of where you live,
you can apply to join the wait list. To
join the wait list, just visit meta.com
/verified.
That link will also be down in the
description and basically all you have
to do is put in your name, your
Instagram profile, or your Facebook
profile and then you'll be able to join
the wait list so you can be notified
when Meta Verified is available to you
in your country. Also, before we get
into the actual requirements to be
verified, I wanted to disclose that it
is something that's going to be separate
between Instagram and Facebook. If you
decide to be verified on both, you will
have to pay a separate fee, you will
have to go through separate
verification, and it won't just be like
a universal blue check that's applied to
all of your Meta profiles. You will have
to go through a separate process for
both Instagram and Facebook. I will also
say that you're only allowed to verify
one account per profile. Not to jump
ahead of ourselves, but you can only be
verified if you are an individual. That
means if you're a business, a nonprofit,
an organization, a group, a dog account,
a pet account, whatever, you cannot be
verified. Even if you're a family
account, you cannot be verified. The
only people who are going to be verified
are truly people, individuals, unique
human beings are the only people who are
going to be verified on Instagram. And
along those same lines, you can only
verify one of yourself. So, if I have,
let's say, one account that's for
fitness and one account that's for
business coaching, I can't have them
both verified. I have to pick one
account for one unique person to be
verified on Instagram. All right, so
let's talk about those five criteria to
be verified on Instagram. The first
three are the obvious ones. The first
one is that you have to meet Instagram's
policies and standards. You have to meet
community guidelines. You have to be in
good standing with Instagram. You can't
be posting any risque freaky stuff on
your Instagram and expect to be
verified. The second one is that you
have to have a minimum activity
requirement met. They haven't exactly
made it clear what that minimum activity
is, but basically, if you've had your
account for more than 120 days and
you've been somewhat regularly posting.
That doesn't mean necessarily posting
every single day, but you've been
posting here and there, maybe one or two
a week, a couple every single month,
then you're going to be fine. If you
just started a brand new account, you
don't have a profile picture, you've
never made a post, well then you're not
going to be verified. But for most of us
who have had our accounts for more than
four months and who post somewhat
regularly, you're going to be just fine
to meet the criteria of what is an
active profile. And then the third thing
to get verified on Instagram, and this
is something that you should do whether
you want to be verified or not, and
that's that you should turn on
two-factor authentication. Two-factor
authentication is where you get a text
message to your phone or a code sent to
your email whenever someone tries to log
into your account. It's essential for
account security. If you don't already
have it turned on, go turn it on now,
but it's going to be a requirement to be
verified on Instagram. All right, so
those are the first three requirements.
Those are kind of the three more simple
requirements. These next two are where
Instagram starts to make people decide
like, "Hey, do you really want this or
not?" And this is where you're going to
kind of have a gut check of is this
worth it for me? And I do want to stress
that this is something that I believe
should be your own personal choice. I
don't think that just because I'm doing
it myself or some other coach or expert
tells you that you should do it, that
you absolutely have to. At the end of
the day, this is not mandatory, this is
a choice. This is a choice that I will
explain more at the end is in my opinion
a worth it choice, something that is a
good decision in my opinion. Uh, but by
no means do you have to do it, and by no
means should you feel pressured to spend
this monthly amount of money in order to
get verified on Instagram. But those
final two out of the five criteria are
where people start to get a little bit
nervous. And the first one is that your
profile has to have your name somewhere
in it, either in the username or in the
Instagram name, also known as the title
of your Instagram, the bold text at the
top of your bio. And your profile
picture has to have you and your face
alone in it. Not a family portrait, not
a logo, not an illustration, not an
AI-generated cute little pixelated
superhero version of yourself. It has to
be a photo of you in your profile
picture, and your full first and last
name have to be somewhere in either your
username or your Instagram name. That
means that if you are a part of a group,
a family account, a pet account like we
mentioned earlier, if you are someone
who uses a logo as your profile picture,
you will not be able to be verified on
Instagram. You're going to have to
change those things to match the
individual person who is running this
account in order to be verified. And if
you can't for whatever reason, or if you
won't for whatever reason, as it
currently stands, you will not be
verified on Instagram. Now, it's
possible that in the future they may
change this, they may make it so
businesses can be verified, and groups,
and people who don't have an individual
representing the profile, so that those
people can be verified. But as it
currently stands, it's only unique
individual people. And the reason that
they want a picture of you as the
profile picture and having your full
first and last name somewhere on the
profile is because the fifth and final
criteria is that you have to upload an
official government document in order to
verify your identity. Now, it's not
exactly clear what they will and won't
accept, but it seems like they're either
looking for a driver's license or a
passport in terms of identification to
figure out if you're the real you.
So yes, you will actually have to take a
picture of your ID front and back and
upload it to Instagram along with your
first and last name in order for them to
verify your account. Now, like I said,
this is where people start to get a
little unsure if they really want
Instagram to have their government ID.
In my opinion, I think it's worth it. I
think that it's not something that's
necessarily going to be stored and
easily accessible to a hacker. I think
that in my opinion, Instagram already
has my name, hundreds of photos of me,
hundreds of videos of me, and they even
actually have my social security number
for when I had to sign up for Reels
bonuses. So, I think it's worth it. I
think it's not much more than I've
already given them in the past. I've
already given them so much of my data.
I've been using the app for 12 years,
and so for me to upload a photo of my
driver's license, not that big of a
deal. You might totally disagree though,
and I would love to hear from you in the
comments. I don't want the comment
section to become a place of arguing and
fighting, but you're welcome to disagree
with my opinion, you're welcome to be
turned off by this requirement, and I
would love to hear from you, what's your
initial thoughts as you hear about this?
Are you thinking, you know, "Hey, this
is kind of what I expected. I got to
verify I'm a real person." Or are you
someone who is very scared right now
because you do not want to have to
upload official government IDs just to
be verified on Instagram? Let me know
down in the comments. All right, so
those are the five requirements that you
have to meet in order to be eligible for
Meta Verified. Once you are eligible and
you have joined the waitlist, you can
apply to be verified. The application
process is relatively simple and
straightforward, and I from what I've
heard, it's also relatively quick. It's
not something that takes days or weeks
or months to get completed. It takes
just a few seconds for you to fill out
the form, type in your name, upload the
photo of your ID, press submit, and then
usually within a few hours or even a few
minutes, you'll get verified. You'll get
the blue check mark, and you will get
access to all of these features. Of
course, you will also have to pay the
monthly fee. I've mentioned that a few
times, and Instagram hasn't said what
the universal fee will be, and I don't
think there will be a universal fee. I
think it will vary from country to
country, and what we've already seen is
that in places like Australia, it's
about $25 for them, Australian dollars
per month. In the United States, they
say it's going to be about 15 United
States dollars per month. Of course, I
think based off the different exchange
rates, different tax fees, the different
import fees, things like that, I'm not
all too sure about what's going to
factor into the price in different
countries, but I do think the price is
going to vary from country to country.
And speaking of, I would love to hear
from you what you think about that fee.
Let's go with the $15 per month in the
United States. Is that a lot? Is that
not a lot? Is that really expensive,
inexpensive? What do you think? Down in
the comments, let me know, what's your
initial reaction to that $15 a month
fee? And then once you sign up, you meet
all of the requirements, and you pay
your monthly fee, you will get access to
these four features that I mentioned
earlier and that blue verification
badge. I do want to note that Instagram
specifically said if you have any
accounts that are like backup accounts
or they are finstagrams or, you know,
just accounts that are yours and they
have your face and name on them, but
they're not like your public or your
main account, those accounts may be in
jeopardy of being deleted as possible
impersonator accounts. So, they said to
make sure that any other accounts that
you have are a part of the same accounts
center within Meta, so that Meta can
say, "Hey, this person is verified, and
all of their other little extra
accounts, we're not going to delete
those because they're owned within the
same accounts center." Also, another
note that I wanted to make, once you're
verified, it is extremely hard, if not
impossible, to change your profile
picture, your username, and your
Instagram name. So, before you apply for
verification, make sure those three
things are set up exactly how you want
them, because if you want to change them
in the future, you're going to get your
verification redacted, and you're going
to have to reapply and go through the
entire process again in order to get
re-verified once you change, say, your
profile picture or your username or
something like that. So, these are all
things to consider before the
verification process. Personally, as
someone who's already verified on
Instagram, I've already seen the
benefits over the last few years of
having that blue check mark, and it's
definitely not something that I want to
lose at this point. Instagram hasn't
made it clear what they're going to do
with the people who were already
verified, but they have encouraged us
pre-verified users to apply for the new
Meta Verified program. Of course,
they're going to encourage us because
they want us to spend more money, but
also, personally, I want those extra
features. I want to be able to
communicate with Meta staff. I want to
have increased account security and
increased uh, proactive prevention of
impersonator accounts. And I want to
keep my blue check mark. So, I'm going
to apply myself. That's my opinion,
that's what I'm doing for me. Also, for
me, I'm going to use the $15 a month as
a tax write-off because it's a business
expense, but you can do whatever you
want with your taxes and whatever you
want with your Instagram account. I
would love to hear from you on what your
plans are. Down in the comments, let me
know, are you going to apply to be
verified on Instagram? Are you going to
join this program? And what are your
overall thoughts? Are you happy that
Instagram is making this more widely
available, or do you think that's going
to dilute it as a whole, make it not
that valuable, but still have us paying
for, you know, $15 to $25 a month to get
a few extra features? I know a lot of
people believe that these extra features
should just become basic and become
mandatory like our rights as social
media users, something that we don't
have to pay for. So, I would love to
hear from you. Let me know your thoughts
down in the comments, and don't forget
to subscribe for more videos just like
this.